All right, guys.
So this is going to be just a bonus video showing you how I created the very simple news grid logo.
And it's this is not true logo design.
Because what I really did is, is I found an icon on the Internet and I just added some text to it.
I edited the colors a little bit.
But what this is going to do is give you a small introduction to Photoshop because Photoshop is very
beneficial when you are creating graphics and or even creating mockups, stuff like that.
So I just figured I'd add this on and I'm by no means am I like a true graphic designer.
I have a little bit of capabilities, but I wouldn't call myself a graphic designer by any means.
So what we're going to do first is create this is Photoshop CC and I'm going to open I'm going to create
a new file so you guys can't see my menu.
What I'm going to go to file new and I'm going to create a new document with the width of 600 by let's
say 600 width, 400 height and create.
And let me just bring this over.
And then I just searched Google for a global icon and I found this here.
So if I go to if I search globe icon, it's going to be this one right here from Carmen's dot Wikimedia
dot org.
Now make sure if you if you're doing this type of thing for a client or for a production website, make
sure that if you do use an icon like this, make sure it's it's it's stock, it's a free stock image.
And it's not from another website or anything like that because you could run into some issues, some
copyright issues.
So I'm going to go ahead and just save this image.
And then I'm going to drag it into my Photoshop image.
I can actually just take this and bring it right in like that and let's resize this.
So we'll do like like that.
And this isn't going to be the exact image that we use, but this is how I did it.
So I'm going to choose this tool right here, which allows me to move things around.
So I'll move this over here and let's choose the text tool right here and just click in there.
And I'm going to say news you guys can't see probably can't see that so small.
I'll increase it in a second but I'm typing news grid and we can change the, the, the size of the
font up here.
I'm not sure exactly what size I use.
Let's highlight this.
And 72 is the largest we can choose here, but you can put in whatever, whatever point you want.
So let's bring this over.
And I don't think this machine has the exact font that I used, but of course you could go through the
fonts.
If I just go up here and just move the mouse wheel, it'll show me all the different fonts that I can
use.
So we'll just choose like, again, this isn't going to be the same exact logo, but we'll choose.
Let's see.
Troops.
Something that's kind of square.
We'll just use that, I guess.
All right.
So you find a font and let's see, we have a color.
That we want to use, which is that red color.
So I'm going to click on the palette right here and just kind of guess.
So it was like a darker red.
So something.
Let's see, something like that.
So I'll click.
Okay, and let's highlight.
Grid and then click this color up, this box up here, which is the actual text color and I can choose
from here.
I could have just did that, but I wanted it in my palette over here.
But you'll see it turns into an eyedropper when I hover over it.
And if I click, it'll change the color to that.
All right.
So that's the text now for the The Globe here.
I want these four inner squares to be red.
I want it to be this color.
So I'm going to grab the wand tool right here and I'm going to click actually see over here in our layers.
I probably should have explained the layers I'm going to select with Control.
D But we have layers, so we have the text, we have the actual icon and we have the background and
we can remove the background with this little AI right here.
See, we can remove that.
We're going to want to do that before we export the file as a PNG.
Now PNG you can have a transparent background like this, but JPEGs you can't.
So if you want a transparent background and not a white or solid color, then make sure you export as
PNG or gif gif, whatever you want.
However you want to say it, people say it in different ways, but gifs are they're not as high quality
as PNGs are.
All right.
So we're just going to leave the background for now, just so we can kind of see what we're doing.
But I'm going to go and highlight the Globe icon here and again, choose the one tool.
And I'm going to click in here.
You'll see the little the moving bars around the the box here.
That means it's selected.
Now I want to select all four.
So I'm going to hold down shift and click this one, this one and this one.
And then we're going to go over to my brush tool, which is this one right here.
And let's see.
Actually, you know what?
I think we have to pasteurize this first.
Yeah.
So see how I can't do anything.
We have to pasteurize this.
So we're going to go over to the layer and right click and say pasteurized layer.
And now we can color it and notice that it's only coloring within the selected parameters.
Okay.
And you can if you right click with the brush tool, you can make it bigger so we can make it bigger
like that.
So now all the four boxes are colored in.
I'm going to d select with control d and that's it.
So pretty simple.
Now, I also have the the light version of it so that it can go on a dark background.
Because if I take this background and this is going to be locked by default, the background, so you
have to double click and just click, okay?
And now it's unlocked.
And we could take the brush and color this if we wanted to, but I'm just going to double click and
it opens up the Layer style panel.
And from here I'm going to choose Color Overlay.
And then we can actually choose a color.
I'm just going to make it really dark like our footer is because that's where we put the light version
and click, okay.
All right.
Now, that doesn't look too good.
It's just it's too dark.
There's no contrast.
So what I'll do is over here, you can see the folder icon.
I'm going to create a new folder by default called Group one, but I'm going to rename it double click,
rename it to Standard, and I'm going to move my two layers, the icon and the news grid, the text
into that standard folder.
All right.
Now, if I click the I here, I can toggle it.
Now I'm going to create another folder down here.
Make sure it's not in the standard.
And I'm going to call this one light.
All right.
And then what I want to do is duplicate both of these the news, the text and the globe icon.
So I'm going to right click and I'm going to say duplicate layers and you can name them if you want.
I'm just going to click, okay.
And they're just going to be called copy.
And now let's move this into the light folder and then I'm going to take the standard folder and just
click the I.
So it's not showing.
So now it's just showing the the logo and or the icon and the text that are in the light folder.
And now I want to make these light.
So the text is easy.
I can just choose the text tool, highlight news, click on this and make it white, click okay.
And then for the icon, I'm going to make sure that it's selected over here in the layer panel and grab
the wand and I want to select Oops.
Uh, let's see.
Yeah, there we go.
So I want to select in there.
I'm actually going to zoom in, so I'll click the microscope here and just zoom in and then click the
wand and hold shift.
That's not the one.
That's the color picker we're going to hold shift and just click in each of these.
Okay.
And then what I'll do is choose the brush tool and I'm going to change the color.
Now this we have two colors here.
You can see the blue.
I'm just going to switch these just so I have that red one as a backup.
But I'm going to change this to white and that's going to be the color of the brush.
And I'll just go ahead and fill that in because it's only going to fill in what's what's selected.
And then I'll do control D to deselect and then let's zoom out.
We'll just say, whoops, we want to say 100%.
And that's the actual logo.
So that's basically what I did.
And then we can take the crop tool and crop this image.
So basically we can just select around it like that.
We can adjust it and let's right click and say Crop.
All right, so now the image is only this big and we have the light.
If I click the little icon and click standard, we have our standard.
Now we're going to want to remove the background.
So we'll click that and now we have our standard and our light.
Now let's save the standard.
So I'm going to go to file.
Now, you could do.
Now we'll just do save as I don't want to make this too confusing so let's go to save as and you can
see that by default it's getting saved as a PSD.
It's what I'm going to call this logo and I don't want it to be a PSD that's a Photoshop file, meaning
that it will include all these layers and stuff, but we can't use that inside of a web page.
So I'm just going to choose from here, P and g.
All right.
And then I'll save this to we'll just save it to, I guess.
My desktop.
And we're going to get this PNG options.
We're going to just click okay here.
All right.
So that saves the regular logo.
Now let's click the light and same thing file save as and I'm going to change I'm going to name this
logo underscore light and I'm going to choose PNG for this as well.
And och, and that's it.
Now, if I close or minimize this and just get rid of all this stuff, don't save.
And then I can show you.
Let me just bring over what I saved.
So we have our logo light and we have our logo PNG All right.
And if I just open this with preview.
We just have just a standard image that we can include in our Web page.
So I just wanted to kind of go through that little process.
It's not really something that is is is needed to know to to build websites.
But if you want to get into editing images, maybe creating graphics and stuff like that, or just maybe
just text logos.
Photoshop is great for that.
There's also --, which is an open source tool that is very similar to Photoshop.
You also have Adobe XD, you have Sketch Figma There's there's a lot of different graphic design programs
out there.
So, you know, fine, find one that fits, fits you.
And you know, it was pretty easy for you to pick up, but I just wanted to throw that video in there.
Hopefully, you guys enjoyed it and that's it.
Thanks.